Students willing to explore their careers, as electrical or electronic engineers should essentially stay aware of a common type of device named as rectifier. This electrical instrument performs its function by changing the rotating Alternating Current that turns across direction to the direct and existing DC current flows in a single direction. 
Students studying in engineering colleges in India will be able to learn to principle under rectification. In this article, you will be able to get information about different types, uses and other important things about rectifiers. Physically, rectifier devices are available in different forms and contain mercury-arc valves, vacuum tube diodes, solid-state diodes, silicon-based switches made of semiconductors and silicon-controlled rectifier devices. 
Irrespective of the form, the instrument is available in the market, rectifiers have fulfilled large numbers of requirements for different industries, about which students of engineering colleges in India should learn compulsorily. Particularly, the devices have obtained their wide applications DC power materials and high-voltage yet direct current transmission systems.
In addition, rectification concept has found its wide application in producing direct current for using as power sources. For instance, one will find detectors of various radio signals perform their functions as rectifiers. In addition, experts working under engineering colleges in India said that the rectification in gas flame is useful for spotting the presence of its flame. 
Easy rectification process leads to production of DC current that can distinguish ebbs, pulsating voltages and flows. Depending upon actual type of end-use, one will find tailoring of existing DC current into somewhat relatively constant DC voltage produced via similar type of battery sources, as solar cells and batteries. 
Rectifier Circuits
Rectifier circuits are available in the industry as both multi-phase and single-phase type. Here, single-phase devices are useful for domestic purposes, while three-phase instruments are of huge significance to perform various types of industrial applications to transmit energy in the form of HVDC or High Voltage DC. 
Half-Wave Rectifiers
Students studying in engineering colleges in India will be able to know that in case of half-wave rectification, either negative or positive portion of the AC current converts into DC by passing from rectifier, while it restricts the second part. Since only a single part of the total input waveform gives result, the device gives less voltage. 
Full-wave Rectification
Full-wave rectifier changes the complete input waveform into any of the two different steady polarities at the output. Full-wave rectification is responsible for changing polarities of a particular input waveform into direct current and thereby, yields high value of output voltage. 
